    ######     New interview related questions    ######



                  
   1. VMss  2.load balencer 3. apllication gateway 4. traffic manager 5. point to point and point to site
  6. Azure sql database 7. Azure monitor 8. network watcher 

  


 1. MYSQL port-- 3306
 2. HTML port-- 80 or 443
 3. Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)-- 80
 4. SSH port-- 22
 5. SFTP port-- 22,, HTTPS--443,, RDP--3389

 RESOURCE GROUP---A resource group is a container that holds related 
                  resources for an Azure solution.

 NETWORK WATCHER--The Azure Network Watcher provides monitoring 
                  for Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS)
                  resources in Azure virtual networks.
                  

 AZURE TRAFFIC MANAGER--Azure Traffic Manager is a DNS-based traffic 
                        load balancer. This service allows you to 
                        distribute traffic to your public facing 
                        applications across the global Azure regions.
                        

 6.Encryption--        Encryption is the process of converting data to 
                      an "encrypted" form. It is commonly used to
                      protect sensitive information so that only 
                      authorized parties can view it.
 

 National security group(NSG)

 8. NSG-- A network security group contains security rules that 
         allow or deny inbound network traffic , or outbound 
         network traffic.


 Network interface(NIC)


 9. NIC-- A NIC is a component which holds the Public IP and the
         private IP of the VM. Also you can associate the NSG to 
         the NIC.


 NIC can be deployed in a subnet of the Virtual Network.

 10. PAAS-- It is a service provider.Which gives the customer a platform,
           which they can easily create,manage and deliver software
           applications.

 11. IAAS-- It is a service model.Which the customer is provided with 
           hardware, networking and storage in the cloud enviroment.

 12. SAAS-- It is a distribution modal. That makes software applications
           (such as-browser) avialble to customers as a service int the
           internet.

 13. STORAGE SERVICES--blob,table,queve and file storage.

   Blob storage--A blob can be any type of text and binary data or
                 application installer.

  Table storage--These tables are designed to store large ammount of
                 data. Where some basic structure is required but 
                 relationship b/w data does not need to be maintain.
 Queve storage--Provides reliable messaging for workflow processing
                and for communication b/w components of cloud service.

 File storage--It is a SMB(service MSG block) implementation that 
               provides an easy method to share storage within an azure region.

 14. Differnce B/W standard and premium storage--


 Premium Storage stores data on the latest technology Solid State
 Drives (SSDs) whereas Standard Storage stores data on Hard Disk 
 Drives (HDDs).

 ** Azure k andr 54 region hote h.india m 3 region (datacenter h).
 
 15. VM-- agr port allow ni kiya to RDP ni le payenge.RDP port VM ko
         access krne k liye lenge. or HTTP and HTTPS se bhi access kr skte h
         internet k through.(RDP--Remote Destop) 

 16. CDN-- It is a highly-distibuted platform of servers that helps minimize delay 
          in loading web page content by reducing the physical distance b/w
          the server and user.

 17. Azure storage--Azure storage provides the flexibility to store
                   and retrieve large amounts of unstructure data
                   such as documents and media files.
 Advantage: Azure storage provides secure backup and disaster recovery
           and can store data for analysis by an on-premise.

 ** Two types of azure storage: 1.Standard storage 2. Premium storage

 18. Premium storage--Premium storage account currently support azure 
                     vm disks only. premium storage delivers high-
                     performance, low latency disk support for I/O 
                     intensive workloads running on azure vm.

 19. VPN gATEWAy--It is a specific type of virtual network gateway  
                 that is used to send encrypted traffic b/w an azure 
                 virtual network and on-premises location over public internet.
                 
 ** VPN is aconnection between two or more networks.
 ** Advantage--* connect your datacenter  to the cloud.
              * connect your azure virtual networks from anywhere.

 20.Azure active Directory--It is microsoft, cloud based directory and 
                           identity management service.For an organization
                           azure active directory helps employees 
                           sign up to multiple services and access them
                           anywhere.

 21. Cloud computing-- cloud computing is the delivery of diffent services
                      through the internet. include storage, servers,database
                      ,networking and software.
  Ex- cloud computing provider is googles gmail.Gmail users can access
      files and applications. 
  
  ## Cloud service--It is a form of PAAS. It is used to support applications that are scalble,
                    reliable and cheap to operate.
  ** cloud service relies on two options 1. Web Role  2.Worker role

! 1. Web role--A service component that is customised for web application programming and 
               supported by internet information service  and ASP.net .A web role is intended to 
               work front to cloud service.

  2. Worker role--A service component that is useful for generised  dovelepment and may perform
                  background proccessing for a web role.A worker role is frequently used long
                  running task that are non intrective. 


 22. VIRTUAL MACHINE--It is a kind of server. Vm is a computer file,
                     typically called an image. Which behave like an actual
                     computer. In other word creating a computer within
                     a computer.
    ** Multiple vm can run simultaneously on the same physical computer.
 

 CREATE::::  STEPS--click on add 
            1.Basic--subscription name + resource GRoup name+
                     Virtual machine name + Region name + size (same)
                     if size increase then cost will be increase
            2.DISK--select OS disk type-premium   SSD ***(SElect)
                                        Standared SSD
                                        Standred  HDO
            ( niche wale dono le skte h (dono low cost k hote h) saste hote h but wo time jyada lenge)
           3. click on NETWORKING --Vnet name + ----------etc.
 
 How to access VM-- RDp download krke IP dal skte h OORR remote destop
                   pr jakr IP dal kr access kr skte h.
   1. VMss  2.load balencer 3. apllication gateway 4. traffic manager 5. point to point and point to site
  6. Azure sql database 7. Azure monitor 8. network watcher 9.  




 23. VIRTUAL NETWORK--- * Vnet enables communications b/w multiple computers
                        ,VMs, virtual servers or other devices.

                       * You can divide a vnet into multiple subnets
                         for organization and security.
                       * A subnet is a range of IP addresses in the Vnet.

 HOW TO CREATE ::: STEPS--click on add then add vnet name +
                         add address space(10.0.0.0/16) +
                         subscription name +resource group name +
                        LOcation + subnet name + address range(10.0.0.0/16)
                        + click on create vnet


 24. LOAD BALANCER--VM in the same cloud service or virtual network 
                    can communicate with each-other directly using their private 
                    IP addresses .Azure load balancer randomly distribute
                    a specific type of incoming traffic across multiple vm.


    (internal load balancer k liye minimum 3 vm chahiye . 2 vm ko load balancer k through balance kroge 
         1 vm se load check krenge  )                

 HOW TO CREATE--STEPS--1.first  we will create Vnet.
                       2. than  we will create vm(3).
                       3.after createing vnet and vm create load balancer
                       STEPS::-load balancer name + Type(internal or public load balancer)
                               + SKU (Basic(1000 instance tk )) +
                               vnet(jo hmne bnaya h ) + subnet(jo hmne bnaya h)
                               + IP address (dynamic) + subscription(free trial) 
                               + resource group + location .
  after create load balancer---then click on load balancer + click backend pool + click 
  add 2 vm in backend pool(dono  vm balance  krni h) + click health prob +
   add name(health probe name) + click protocol (HTTP(internet k through connect krna h) +
   unhealty threshold(2)
  
  last click on load balancing rule + add name + etc.....
  dono vm ki RDP lenge (server install k liye)




26.AZURE SQL DATABASE---  Azure SQL Database is a fully managed 
                          database service, which means that Microsoft
                          operates SQL Server for you and ensures its
                          availability and performance.




