                         INTERVIEW RELATED-2

                
1. VMss  --------                      D
2.load balencer ----                   D
3. apllication gateway ----            D
4. traffic manager -----               D
5. point to point and point to site----D
6. Azure sql database ----             D
7. Azure monitor ----                  UNDONE
8. network watcher -----               D
9. azure app service---                D
10. azure app service plan---          D
11. VMSS--                             D]
12. NSG---                             D
12. NIC---                             D
 

     #### REST API--- jo hmko ek website se dusri link pr lekr jate h. #####

** Build, change, and destroy Azure infrastructure using Terraform. 
** Azure PowerShell is designed for managing  Azure resources from the command line.

** SKU--  basically signify a purchasable SKU under a product.
('Stock-keeping-Unit' )

##  Azure storage offers different access tiers, allowing you to store blob object data in  the most cost-effective manner. Available access tiers include: Hot - Optimized for  storing data that is accessed frequently. Cool - Optimized for storing data that is  infrequently accessed and stored for at least 30 days.

  ## Azure DNS is a hosting service for DNS domains that provides name resolution by using Microsoft Azure infrastructure.




1. NSG--NSG contain security rule that allow or deny inbound network traffic or outbound network trffic.

2. NIC--NIC is the component which hold the of public IP and Private  IP of the VM. Also you can associate the NSG to the NIC.
        
3. NETWORK WATCHER--Azure network watcher provides monitoring for IAAS resources 
                    in azure Vnet.
4. PORT--
5. AZURE TRAFFIC MANAGER--Azure Traffic Manager is a DNS-based traffic 
                        load balancer. This service allows you to 
                        distribute traffic to your public facing 
                        applications across the global Azure regions.


6. Encryption-- Encryption is the process of the converting data to an "encrypted " form.
                It is commnly used to protect sensitive information.

  
7. Differnce B/W standard and premium storage--Premium storage stores data on SSDs form whereas standard storage stores data on HDDs form.

 SSds-- solid state drives
 HDDs-- hard disk drives 

8. AZURE RESOURCE GROUP--A Azure resource group is a container that holds related resource for an azure solution.
                         

9. APPLICATION GATEWAY-- Azure Application Gateway is a web traffic load balancer that enables you to manage traffic to your web applications.
         

10. VMSS--Azure virtual machine scale sets provide high availability to your applications,and allow you to centrally manage, configure, and update a large number of VMs.


11. AZURE APP SERVICE-- Azure App Service-- Azure App Service is a fully managed 
   web hosting service for building web apps, mobile back ends 
   and RESTful APIs. 
 ** app service m kisi bhi language ko use kr skte h like (java , python,.net, node js     etc..)

12. AZURE APP SERVICE PLAN--An App Service plan defines a set of
   compute resources for a web app to run. 
   One or more apps can be configured to run on the
   same computing resources (or in the same App Service plan).


13. Azure Monitor----
   Azure Monitor helps you maximize the availability and performance of your applications  
   and services. It delivers a comprehensive solution for collecting, analyzing, and acting
     on telemetry from your cloud and on-premises environments.

14. AVAILABILITY SET IN VM--In availbility set more than one VM can resides.
                            With the help of availabbility set you can manage the   availability of your VM. Availability sets let you scale up and down your compute 
  resources as the demand grows and shrinks.

15. WEB APPS--Azure app service developers repidly build , deploy and manage powerful 
              websites and web apps.Build standarda-based web apps and API using
     .NET,PHP,JAVA and PYTHON etc. deliver both web and mobile apps for employees or customers.



16. DIFF. B/W PUBLIC AND INTERNAL LOAD BALENCER---** Public Load Balancers are used to 
    load balance internet traffic to your VMs.

**  Internal load balancers are used to load balance traffic inside a virtual network.


 ## difference between Azure monitor and log analytics--Azure Monitor is the tool to get  
 the data from the Azure resources, and Log Analytics is the tool to query that data if  
  you want to query over multiple resources.

 *** PRICING TIERS-- The Basic pricing tier is designated for production sites, supporting 
     smaller sites, as well as development and testing scenarios.

 ***  Access control (IAM) ---is the page that you typically use to assign roles to grant access
                              to Azure resources.

*** A service tag--- represents a group of IP address prefixes from a given Azure service.

 *** The Activity log is a platform log in Azure that provides insight into subscription-
      level events. 

